# web-fundamentals
For the average user, visiting a webpage is a task that does not evoke much amazement. In order to understand what actually happens when visiting webpages, however, users must first visit the page’s URL. 
URLs are addresses that dictate the HTTP, domain name, and HTML of the webpage. At its basic function, webpages act as the building blocks, so to speak, of the Internet. Their HTTP enables communication between multiple computers by means of a specific language dictated via server. Meanwhile, their HTML is the behind-the-scenes text that builds and stylizes the webpage itself. Combined, HTTP and HTML are running the site as users click, scroll, read, and explore. 
Communicating in HTTP, browsers converse with servers to enable users access to websites and webpages. Browsers are applications, otherwise known as hosts or clients, like Safari and Firefox. Servers run software to communally send back-and-forth messages so users can command responses from websites like opening and downloading and saving files. 
Taking such information into consideration, users should also differentiate the web from the internet. The web is accessed through the internet; they are not the same entity at all, as the internet is a global network of computers and the web is a global network of digital information.
Conclusively, what happens when a user visits a webpage is simple: Typing in the URL determines the site’s compatibility with the computer. Then, HTML works to showcase the front-end appearance and make-up of the page, while HTTP allows the webpage to perform the user’s communicative functions with other computers. While all of this occurs, browsers and servers trade information to appeal to the user’s commands. 
